you
we're getting ready to install a lo tomó
here and then the first thing we need to
do is dig a trench right right actually
we're gonna dig a trench all all the
different sides all four sides and then
when we put the plastic over the hoops
then we'll throw the dirt will the
classical lay in the trench okay and
then we'll throw the dirt on it
so as we dig we want to make sure we're
putting the dirt to the outside right so
that we could cover our plastic up again
and we went ahead and stuck the end
hoops in just to guide us I guess as we
were right one other thing we have
irrigation in this bed so obviously as
you did you want to make sure to avoid
any existing irrigation
now that we have our trunk trench dug we
can install the hoops you bet
we just you go ahead and start Church
down okay okay and then all right one
down and how far do we want them in Oh
however high you want your tunnel but I
think that looks about where we were and
you want it deep enough to be stable of
course yeah this is Oklahoma the wind
blows a lot and we're just trying to
evenly space these the length of our bed
okay there we go
and next we pull our plastic across it
looks like this one all right go down
just a little bit okay yeah that was
high and again we're just using that
well we have a heavy grade plastic that
you would use on greenhouses but you can
use a much less expensive variety okay
and as we measure our plastic we're
gonna pull it past the end hoop a few
feet yeah and I'll hold it on this end
and we'll go ahead and go back to the
other end and cut it also several feet
long because we want enough to be able
to close up the end of the tunnel okay
now that we have it cut you want to open
it and this is folded in half so I'm
just holding the middle point
so that it's a proud even on each side
and you made some nice little clips PVC
cut up and we'll just do that to the
length of the bed and open it up how
tight do we want to pull the plastic oh
you get as tight as you can not it
doesn't have to be super tight I think
you've got the right in there
Oh Kim the next step really is to push
this pocket down into the trench that we
dug already and so we can either push
that down with our feet that's just
pretty tough plastic so we don't have to
worry about it too much and then we just
start filling that trench soil ideally
you want to get your crop in right and
then put the plastic over the top the
great thing about putting this sub soil
down in here is that even if you get a
big wind the plastic that they put so if
you were just using Clips it wouldn't
hold that plastic down by the soil in
the trench will so the plaster the clips
are nice while you're working just to
hold it in place especially if you're
working alone all right now that we have
the edges all buried in plastic the crop
is planted inside we just wait and let
it grow right
make sure to water we have drip inside
so it's easy to water later in the
season we might want to get in here to
start working as the crop grows and we
could dig out one side we could weigh
that down with other materials yeah you
could use boards you know you can use
sandbags somebody suggested that so that
would work or the other option if you're
if you're really nimble and you don't
mind you know on your hands and knees
you could just open up in the end and
crawl in and do what you got to do and
then crawl back at closing end down
there's a lot of ways whatever we do we
want to make sure that we weigh it down
well to keep it from blowing away in the
wind right because that's that can be a
big issue for us you know you get a 60
70 mile an hour wind and off she goes
well thank you so much for your help
today I enjoyed it
I
you